---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPostLayout.astro
title: "Why are trans people so political?"
description: "Transgender individuals are targeted and harassed, and then people wonder why we're politically active?"
---

The words in this blog post are something I was thinking about a lot yesterday (but didn't post then because I didn't want to post this on 9/11 and whilst the suspect for the Charlie Kirk assassination was on the loose).

For the past few years, the attacks on transgender individuals have been relentless. The heat in the world towards us has been intense, and the right has constantly perpetrated these attacks. The right over a period of about a decade has gone from having "debate" about our existence to calling for our elimination from public life, calling us mental illness, and in many cases now calling for genocide. I have personally felt this in my life. It is easy for people to say "don't look at Twitter" or "don't look at the news", but this is a privilege. For existing and not hiding myself, I have to deal with everything from assault to verbal abuse almost daily (I'm not even counting Twitter — I mean here, in England, in what's supposed to be the safest city in the UK) and [my healthcare provider is actively being harmed](/blog/nhs-sussex). It wasn't this bad even a year ago. Your words have consequences. Laws get passed because of these words, and the media spreads them onto people. We have to deal with the attacks, physically and verbally, and it is draining. Taking a break from social media doesn't do anything when walking down the street I get abused.

Which brings me to why I'm so politically active. I've seen first hand the harms society does to people like me. People trying and struggling to live their lives with the barriers the rest of society try to put in our way. Even going to the toilet is seen as political here now, making it harder for me to go outside. This isn't just debate, this is harming real people's lives. The people "protesting" in London tomorrow have targeted so many minority groups. I feel a civic duty for everyone in this country to counter-protest this due to what I've seen in my own life and how the cycle of dehumanisation continues. It's genuinely sickening.

I don't think it is a good thing that political violence happened (even to a person that put so much effort into preventing the gun legislation that may well have saved his life), but at the same time, I'm not going to mourn someone who has said the words that cause evil laws to be passed, who actively started a group to bring their evil into the UK, and who spent their last minutes on this world dehumanising people like me. Right after the attack, it was immediately clear who was going to be to blame in the eyes of the media. The FBI falsely claimed the bullets contained "transgender ideology" (a term used to make our lives seem like a fad and not who we are), and immediately the entire press ran with it. Every transphobe in the UK, every newspaper (still a large deal in the UK). They all had that the bullets had words related to transgender people. They didn't.

These people will never take back these words. The amount of harm these words have caused (ESPECIALLY to the trans person that 4chan falsely asserted did the assassination) is unquantifiable. These people can spin a narrative, try to make my life a little bit worse every day, and just get off scot-free. It's not okay.

I'm just a human. I'd love to speak more about technology and other fun things, but I have to justify that my existence is not sub-human. I'll be okay, I have a great social group now, but please just let me be so I can just ship code without having to worry about my safety!
